# Prioritising the eradication of invasive species from island archipelagos with high reinvasion risk

Eradicating invasive species from islands remains one of the most practical means of safeguarding threatened and endangered species from extinction. Island eradications can deliver lasting benefits, but require large up-front expenditure of limited conservation resources, and must therefore be prioritised. Numerous prioritisation schemes have been developed for island eradications, but none fully account for the risk of those eradicated species later returning to the island: reinvasion. In this paper, we develop a prioritisation method for island eradications that treats reinvasion as a dynamic, state-dependent, and stochastic process. By merging metapopulation modelling with dynamic optimisation techniques, we construct a decision-support tool that optimises conservation outcomes in the presence of reinvasion risk. When applied to two different case studies: rat (Rattus rattus) invasions in the Seaforth archipelago in New Zealand, and cane toad (Rhinella marina) invasions in the Dampier archipelago in Australia, our model successfully generated state-dependent optimal policies that maximised the expected conservation gain for each archipelago. In both case studies, reinvasion risk dramatically altered the optimal order of island eradications, and improved the potential conservation benefits. However, the increase in benefits was larger in Dampier than Seaforth (42% improvement versus 5%), as a consequence of both the invasive species and the arrangement of the islands. The results of our model illustrate the potential consequences of ignoring reinvasion risk, and demonstrate that including reinvasion in  eradication prioritisation can dramatically improve the outcomes of this important conservation action.
